a few weeks ago I went to trial quest
for some triumph of venture training and
this is the reason why I've come to the
south of Spain to try out the new
Triumph Tiger 800 now there are two
models of this bike the XC which is an
off-road version and the XR which is for
mainly road juice and then there are two
extreme versions of these models
tomorrow I'm going to be riding the XR X
but this is the XC x the extreme version
of the XC so first off I'm doing what I
loved most by Knopf Road
alright that you can turn off the ABS
and the traction control because I find
it weird when you've got that on and it
kicks in as you're coming around a
corner because you kind of it I'm not
used to having traction control or ABS
on an off-road bike
it's day 2 and I'm packing miles in on
the XRS now this road is actually to
wander and a lot of people use it to
test cars and bikes I've just stopped
for coffee it's quite windy up here now
time to get back on the bike
you ever get a chance to ride this road
servando I highly recommend it because
you just get these stunning views where
you feel like you're on top of the world
unfortunately that's the end of my mini
Spanish adventure but it's been great to
get to know these new Triumph Tiger 800s
now you may already know that the tiger
800 was originally launched back in 2010
and it's been hugely popular since then
there are four new bikes for 2015
they've got more rider focused
technology they're more efficient more
refined and more responsive now they're
more responsive due to the ride by wire
throttle system I actually rode last
year's XC a trial quest just a few weeks
ago and I can immediately tell riding
these bikes that the throttle is way
more responsive and the power delivery
is a lot smoother which is great as I
thought is pretty good already
this year's Tiger is a whopping 17
percent more fuel efficient so you're
getting 65 miles per gallon instead of
55 so you look at around a 270 mile
range on its 19 litre tank which is
great news I've not even seen a petrol
station today and the last thing you
want to do when your adventure riding is
to keep stopping for fuel all the time
abs and traction control comes as
standard but with the X versions you can
tailor those rides to suit your riding
ability yesterday when I went off-road
on the XCX I had it in off-road mode and
although it allows for some rear wheel
slip you've still got traction control
in abs when I go around a corner I want
the backend to come out so I decided to
use the programmable mode switch the ABS
and the track control off and
immediately I was having way more fun
the alternator has been beefed up so if
you're using your 12 volt power supply
the X versions actually have an
additional one to power your heated gear
maybe your pillions heated gear to
charge your phone in your top box
you've got your sat-nav running it'll
start to switch off some of the less
necessary electrical items starting with
the heated grips how cool is that it
means that your battery won't drain the
XCX has more of an off-road look to it
it's got spoked wheels the front wheels
bigger it's got an upper mud guards it's
got WP suspension compared to the XR X's
show a suspension I know that there is a
huge market for the X
people that do a lot of commuting
touring adventure riding with ten bits
of off roads and who love this style of
bike but to me adventure riding is all
about doing those extreme off-road parts
the XCX is what makes me really excited
about adventure riding and there are
over 70 accessories you can really
personalize these bikes and make them
your own and get that adventure look
everybody loves if you're smaller in
height not that physically strong like
me or you just want to give adventure
riding a go don't let the size of the
Tigers cut you off they're extremely
manageable and then still confidence in
you straightaway and the thing all the
work for you if you let them
you